docs/art_study/Classification/art_analysis.md, before:

# Art analysis of the classification from 2024

This has been written in 2025.

The main objective is to classify the publications by themes and sub-theme.

## The work from 2024

It seems to work well. However there are two possible issues:

- There are not enough themes to cover all the possible scientific publications.

Let's consider only the publications that are related to the given themes.

- The classification is only made on the *abstract* of the publication,
and not on the title or even the keywords that the *HAL* **API**
could give for istance.

I think it could be good if we gave the title, the abstract
and the retrieved keywords altogether to the *classify_abstract_combined()*
function.

It will give the related *theme* if the publication is within
the covered range of themes.

In fact, it may be necessary to replace the *Flask API* because:

```
WARNING: This is a development server.
Do not use it in a production deployment.
Use a production WSGI server instead.
``` 

It could be useful to integrate the classification code
into the server implementation.
Here is the plan on this picture:

![Classification Module](/data/classification_module.png)

### Better *README* file and *explanations*.

I had some issues to launch the *flask* app.

Here is a more detailed guide on how to use it for **python3.13**:

```bash
cd classification/code/
python3 -m venv .env_classification
source .env_classification/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

where the *requirements.txt* file is:

```python
spacy==3.8.7
flask==3.1.1
nltk==3.9.1
scikit-learn==1.6.1
```

Then do:

```bash
python -m spacy download en_core_web_lg
./start_classification.sh
```

If there is the error ``port 5000 already used``, just do:

```bash
ps aux | grep app.py
kill -9 <app.py pid>
```

## My own thoughts about the idea

The solution is good, nothing to add, except there are not enough themes.

### The different solutions that already exist.

It is possible to use a *Natural Language Processing* to get better results.
However, it is not that easy.

In fact, I just need to use **BERT** which is an *NLP model*
(*+68M monthly downloads*).
It could be very powerful, more powerful than the current *classification* model.

But the current model from 2024 is good, I don't want to mess with it.

### EOF

Commit message:

fix(art analysis): Classification, how not to use WSGI production server.

docs/art_study/Classification/art_analysis.md, after:

# Art analysis of the classification from 2024

This has been written in 2025.

The main objective is to classify the publications by themes and sub-theme.

## The work from 2024

It seems to work well. However there are two possible issues:

- There are not enough themes to cover all the possible scientific publications.

Let's consider only the publications that are related to the given themes.

- The classification is only made on the *abstract* of the publication,
and not on the title or even the keywords that the *HAL* **API**
could give for istance.

I think it could be good if we gave the title, the abstract
and the retrieved keywords altogether to the *classify_abstract_combined()*
function.

It will give the related *theme* if the publication is within
the covered range of themes.

In fact, it may be necessary to replace the *Flask API* because:

```
WARNING: This is a development server.
Do not use it in a production deployment.
Use a production WSGI server instead.
``` 


So anyway, the current *Flask API* will have to be reworked.
Here are some ideas:

1. **Use HTTP requests with** ***Flask***. This is easiest way because
it requires small changes, however this is not designed for that I suppose.
In fact, the only good way to get a *Flask* server for production is to use
[***gunicorn***](https://docs.gunicorn.org/).

2. **Use** ***Child Processes*** **in Node.js**.
Here is a more detailed guide [***right here***](www.delftstack.com/howto/javascript/call-python-from-javascript/).

3. **Use** ***Websocket*** **like** [***Socketio***](https://www.delftstack.com/howto/javascript/call-python-from-javascript/).
I don't want the *websocket* to require an authentication because it will be
too hard to code. That's why the client must not have the right to
communicate with the *websocket*. Only the server should do that.
So for this method, the server classifies the publication and not the client.


For any of these methods, here is the generic plan on this picture:

![Classification Module](/data/classification_module.png)

### Better *README* file and *explanations*.

I had some issues to launch the *flask* app.

Here is a more detailed guide on how to use it for **python3.13**:

```bash
cd classification/code/
python3 -m venv .env_classification
source .env_classification/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

where the *requirements.txt* file is:

```python
spacy==3.8.7
flask==3.1.1
nltk==3.9.1
scikit-learn==1.6.1
```

Then do:

```bash
python -m spacy download en_core_web_lg
./start_classification.sh
```

If there is the error ``port 5000 already used``, just do:

```bash
ps aux | grep app.py
kill -9 <app.py pid>
```

## My own thoughts about the idea

The solution is good, nothing to add, except there are not enough themes.

### The different solutions that already exist.

It is possible to use a *Natural Language Processing* to get better results.
However, it is not that easy.

In fact, I just need to use **BERT** which is an *NLP model*
(*+68M monthly downloads*).
It could be very powerful, more powerful than the current *classification* model.

But the current model from 2024 is good, I don't want to mess with it.

### EOF
